.TH SHEPHARD 1 "February 2026" "shephard 0.1.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shephard \- sync many Git repositories with pull/commit/push workflows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shephard
.I COMMAND
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shephard
is a Rust CLI for running Git sync workflows across configured repositories.
Repository targets are read from
.B ~/.config/shephard/config.toml
and run non-interactively.
.PP
Side-channel mode can snapshot working-tree changes into a dedicated remote branch
without creating commits on your current local branch.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B run
Run the multi-repository sync workflow.
.TP
.B apply
Apply side-channel commits onto the current branch in one repository.
.SH RUN OPTIONS
.TP
.B --non-interactive
Accepted for compatibility. No effect.
.TP
.B --repos \fIPATH\fR ...
Operate only on matching configured repository paths.
.TP
.B --pull-only
Only pull (\fBgit pull --ff-only\fR). Do not commit/push.
.TP
.B --push
Enable commit/push behavior (subject to config and mode).
.TP
.B --include-untracked
Stage tracked and untracked files.
.TP
.B --tracked-only
Stage tracked files only.
.TP
.B --side-channel
Enable side-channel sync mode.
.TP
.B --no-side-channel
Disable side-channel sync mode.
.SH APPLY OPTIONS
.TP
.B --repo \fIPATH\fR
Repository path. Defaults to current directory.
.TP
.B --method \fImerge|cherry-pick|squash\fR
Apply strategy for side-channel changes.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Config file:
.PP
\fB~/.config/shephard/config.toml\fR
.PP
All keys are optional. Built-in defaults are applied first, then global config values,
then per-repository values, then per-run CLI overrides.
.PP
Repositories must be declared in \fB[[repositories]]\fR entries.
Without \fB--repos\fR, shephard processes all enabled repositories.
With \fB--repos\fR, unknown paths are skipped.
.SH SIDE-CHANNEL SAFETY
With side-channel enabled,
.B shephard
uses a temporary Git index to snapshot local changes and avoids modifying the
real index or local \fBHEAD\fR during sync.
.PP
Before creating the side-channel commit, it performs a virtual three-way apply
against the current side-branch tip. If conflicts are detected, sync fails with
conflicting paths instead of silently overwriting side-channel content.
.PP
If push is rejected because the side branch advanced concurrently, shephard
fetches, recomputes once, and retries.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All selected repositories succeeded or were no-op.
.TP
.B 1
At least one selected repository failed.
.TP
.B 2
Startup/config/usage failure.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/shephard/config.toml
Main configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run configured repositories:
.PP
\fBshephard run\fR
.TP
Run a configured subset:
.PP
\fBshephard run --repos /path/a /path/b --push\fR
.TP
Apply side-channel branch with merge:
.PP
\fBshephard apply --repo /path/repo --method merge\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1)
